= mongo-hashie

mongo-hashie is a mongodb library that aims to be simple and effective. No need to explicitly define properties. Getters and setters are created through the underlying Mash class from hashie.

== Install

 $ gem install mongo-hashie

== Usage

 $ class Document < MongoHashie::Base
 $ end

Simply add new properties by calling the setter.

Basic CRUD operations

 $ document = Document.new(:author => "Oliver Kiessler")
 $ document.name = "test attribute"
 $ document.save # create
 $ puts document._id # Mongo ObjectID String represenation

 $ document.name = "simple change"
 $ document.save # update

 $ document.destroy

 $ document2 = Document.create(:author => "Oliver Kiessler", :name => "Great Document Name")

 $ Document.destroy_all

Find operations

 $ Document.first
 $ Document.find("4b3f4bd4c1d7110513000001") # Mongo ObjectID String represenation

 $ Document.all
 $ Document.all(:author => "Oliver Kiessler")
 $ Document.find(:author => "Oliver Kiessler", :name => "Great Document Name")

 $ Document.count

Meta Data

 $ document1 = Document.create(:author => "Oliver Kiessler", :name => "Great Document Name", :prop1 => "Test")
 $ document2 = Document.create(:author => "Oliver Kiessler", :name => "Great Document Name", :prop2 => "Test")
 $ document3 = Document.create(:author => "Oliver Kiessler", :name => "Great Document Name", :prop3 => "Test")

 $ puts Document.properties_used.inspect

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009/2010 Oliver Kiessler. See LICENSE for details.
